feat(curriculum): add device loan ledger lab in js objects (#67155)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/blocks/lab-device-loan-ledger/69f0a37c3bf194a7c9c62492.md

---
id: 69f0a37c3bf194a7c9c62492
title: Build a Device Loan Ledger
challengeType: 26
dashedName: lab-device-loan-ledger
---

# --description--

> You are a software developer tasked with creating a ledger application to manage IT hardware devices provisioned by your company's Service Desk. The ledger's structure is an object made up of `assetTag` properties, and values that are also objects:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You are a software developer tasked with creating a ledger application to manage IT hardware devices provisioned by your company's Service Desk. The ledger is an object whose keys are asset tags and whose values are objects:
```

  "2": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" },
  "3": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Jane Doe", email: "jane@acme.org" }, dueDate: "10/31/2025" },
  "4": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
});

function serializeLedger(ledger) {
  return JSON.stringify(ledger);
}

function loadLedger(json) {
  return JSON.parse(json);
}

function checkoutDevice(ledger, assetTag, borrower) {
  const loaded = loadLedger(ledger);
  loaded[assetTag].status = "CheckedOut";
  loaded[assetTag].borrower.name = borrower.name;
  loaded[assetTag].borrower.email = borrower.email;
  return `${loaded[assetTag].type} with asset tag ${assetTag} has been checked out to ${borrower.name}.`;
}

function checkinDevice(ledger, assetTag) {
  const loaded = loadLedger(ledger);
  loaded[assetTag].status = "CheckedIn";
  loaded[assetTag].borrower.name = "";
  loaded[assetTag].borrower.email = "";
  loaded[assetTag].dueDate = "";
  return `${loaded[assetTag].type} with asset tag ${assetTag} has been checked in.`;
}

> function reformatDate(date) {
>     const datePartsArray = date.split("/");
>     let month = datePartsArray[0];
>     let day = datePartsArray[1];
>     const year = datePartsArray[2];
> 
>     month = month.padStart(2, "0");
>     day = day.padStart(2, "0");
> 
>     const formattedDate = year + month + day;
>     return parseInt(formattedDate, 10);
> }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
function reformatDate(date) {
  const datePartsArray = date.split("/");
  let month = datePartsArray[0];
  let day = datePartsArray[1];
  const year = datePartsArray[2];

  month = month.padStart(2, "0");
  day = day.padStart(2, "0");

  const formattedDate = year + month + day;
  return parseInt(formattedDate, 10);
}
```

---
id: 69f0a37c3bf194a7c9c62492
title: Build a Device Loan Ledger
challengeType: 26
dashedName: lab-device-loan-ledger
---

# --description--

You are a software developer tasked with creating a ledger application to manage IT hardware devices provisioned by your company's Service Desk. The ledger is an object whose keys are asset tags and whose values are objects:

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": {
    type: "Laptop",
    status: "CheckedIn",
    borrower: {
      name: "",
      email: ""
    },
    dueDate: ""
  }
};
```

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

1. You should model the ledger as `{ [assetTag]: { type, status, borrower: { name, email }, dueDate } }`.

> 1. You should implement a `checkoutDevice(ledger, assetTag, borrower)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, sets the borrower's `name` and `email` on the clone, updates the `status` to `"CheckedOut"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining the asset tag was not found. If the device is already `"CheckedOut"`, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining it is already checked out, without overwriting the current borrower.

Reviewer 2: Missing `that` after `explaining`, twice.

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `checkoutDevice(ledger, assetTag, borrower)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, sets the borrower's `name` and `email` on the clone, updates the `status` to `"CheckedOut"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that the asset tag was not found. If the device is already `"CheckedOut"`, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that it is already checked out, without overwriting the current borrower.
```

> 1. You should implement a `checkinDevice(ledger, assetTag)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, clears the borrower's `name` and `email`, resets `dueDate` to `""`, updates the `status` to `"CheckedIn"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining the asset tag was not found.

Reviewer 2: Same missing `that`.

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `checkinDevice(ledger, assetTag)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, clears the borrower's `name` and `email`, resets `dueDate` to `""`, updates the `status` to `"CheckedIn"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that the asset tag was not found.
```

> 1. You should implement a `listOverdueDevices(ledger, today)` function that takes the ledger as an object and returns an array of overdue entries sorted by due date ascending. Due dates are in `M/D/YYYY` format and may not be zero-padded (e.g. `"9/5/2025"` as well as `"09/05/2025"`). Do not use the JavaScript `Date` object anywhere in the code.

Reviewer 2: Four things the tests require but this story omits:

- Only `"CheckedOut"` devices count (line 226). The story says just "overdue entries", so filtering on `dueDate` alone fails a test the instructions never hinted at.
- What an "entry" is. The assertions read `result[0].borrower.name`, so entries must be the device objects. `[assetTag, device]` pairs and `{ assetTag, ...device }` are equally natural readings, and both fail.
- `today`'s format. `M/D/YYYY` is documented for due dates only.
- The boundary. No hint uses a `dueDate` equal to `today`, so `<` and `<=` both pass. Worth pinning in prose and adding a hint for.

This also promotes the `Date` prohibition to its own story, since the hint on line 265 checks the whole file rather than just this one function, and says "your code" rather than "the code".

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `listOverdueDevices(ledger, today)` function that takes the ledger as an object and returns an array of the device objects that are overdue, sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order. A device is overdue when its `status` is `"CheckedOut"` and its `dueDate` is strictly before `today`. Both `today` and `dueDate` are strings in `M/D/YYYY` format, and the month and day may not be zero-padded (e.g. `"9/5/2025"` as well as `"09/05/2025"`).
1. You should not use the JavaScript `Date` object anywhere in your code.
```

> 1. You should implement `serializeLedger(ledger)` and `loadLedger(json)` helper functions to convert between a JavaScript object and a JSON string.

Reviewer 2: "convert between" leaves each function's direction unstated.

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `serializeLedger(ledger)` helper function that converts the ledger object into a JSON string, and a `loadLedger(json)` helper function that converts a JSON string back into a JavaScript object.
```

# --hints--

You should create a function named `checkoutDevice`.

```js
assert.isFunction(checkoutDevice);
```

You should create a function named `checkinDevice`.

```js
assert.isFunction(checkinDevice);
```

You should create a function named `listOverdueDevices`.

```js
assert.isFunction(listOverdueDevices);
```

You should create a function named `serializeLedger`.

```js
assert.isFunction(serializeLedger);
```

You should create a function named `loadLedger`.

```js
assert.isFunction(loadLedger);
```

> `serializeLedger` should return a JSON string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `serializeLedger` function should return a JSON string.
```

```js
const obj = { "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" } };
assert.isString(serializeLedger(obj));
assert.deepEqual(JSON.parse(serializeLedger(obj)), obj);
```

> `loadLedger` should return a JavaScript object.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `loadLedger` function should return a JavaScript object.
```

```js
const json = '{"1":{"type":"Laptop","status":"CheckedIn","borrower":{"name":"","email":""},"dueDate":""}}';
assert.isObject(loadLedger(json));
assert.deepEqual(loadLedger(json), JSON.parse(json));
```

> `checkoutDevice` should not mutate the original ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should not mutate the original ledger.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const original = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(ledger));
checkoutDevice(ledger, "1", { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" });
assert.deepEqual(ledger, original);
```

> `checkoutDevice` should update the borrower's name and email and set status to `"CheckedOut"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should set the borrower's `name` and `email`, and set `status` to `"CheckedOut"`.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "1", { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" });
assert.isObject(result);
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].status, "CheckedOut");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.name, "Alice");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.email, "alice@test.com");
```

> `checkoutDevice` should return a confirmation message that includes the asset tag and borrower name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should return a confirmation message that includes the asset tag and the borrower's `name`.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "2", { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" });
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "2");
assert.include(result.message, "Bob");
```

> `checkoutDevice` should preserve unrelated devices and unchanged fields in the returned ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should preserve unrelated devices and unchanged fields in the returned ledger.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "1", { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" });
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].type, "Laptop");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger["2"], ledger["2"]);
```

> `checkoutDevice` should return the ledger unchanged and an explanatory message when the asset tag is not found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should return the ledger unchanged and an explanatory message when the asset tag is not found.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "99", { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" });
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "99");
```

> `checkoutDevice` should not overwrite the borrower when the device is already checked out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkoutDevice` function should not overwrite the borrower when the device is already checked out.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "1", { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" });

> assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.name, "Alice");
> assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.email, "alice@test.com");

Reviewer 2: Story 2 requires the ledger be returned unchanged here, but only the borrower is checked. I added `updatedLedger[assetTag].dueDate = "";` to this early-return branch of the reference solution and it still passed 23/23. The not-found hints already assert this (lines 139 and 211).

```suggestion
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.name, "Alice");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.email, "alice@test.com");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
```

assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "1");
```

> `checkinDevice` should not mutate the original ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should not mutate the original ledger.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const original = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(ledger));
checkinDevice(ledger, "1");
assert.deepEqual(ledger, original);
```

> `checkinDevice` should clear borrower info, reset `dueDate`, and set status to `"CheckedIn"`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should clear the borrower's `name` and `email`, reset `dueDate`, and set `status` to `"CheckedIn"`.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const result = checkinDevice(ledger, "1");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].status, "CheckedIn");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.name, "");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.email, "");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].dueDate, "");
```

> `checkinDevice` should return a confirmation message that includes the asset tag.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should return a confirmation message that includes the asset tag.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "3": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Carol", email: "carol@test.com" }, dueDate: "11/15/2025" }
};
const result = checkinDevice(ledger, "3");
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "3");
```

> `checkinDevice` should preserve unrelated devices and unchanged fields in the returned ledger.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should preserve unrelated devices and unchanged fields in the returned ledger.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
const result = checkinDevice(ledger, "1");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].type, "Laptop");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger["2"], ledger["2"]);
```

> `checkinDevice` should return the ledger unchanged and an explanatory message when the asset tag is not found.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should return the ledger unchanged and an explanatory message when the asset tag is not found.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const result = checkinDevice(ledger, "99");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "99");
```

> `listOverdueDevices` should return an array.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return an array.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
assert.isArray(listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025"));
```

> `listOverdueDevices` should return only overdue `CheckedOut` devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return only overdue devices with a `status` of `"CheckedOut"`.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" },
  "3": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/31/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 1);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Alice");
```

> `listOverdueDevices` should return entries sorted by due date ascending.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return entries sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "11/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 2);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Bob");
assert.equal(result[1].borrower.name, "Alice");
```

> `listOverdueDevices` should sort correctly even when month or day is not zero-padded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your `listOverdueDevices` function should sort correctly even when the month or day is not zero-padded.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "9/5/2025" },
  "2": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/1/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 2);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Alice");
assert.equal(result[1].borrower.name, "Bob");
```

You should not use the JavaScript `Date` object anywhere in your code.

```js

> assert.notMatch(code, /new\s+Date\s*\(/);

Reviewer 2: This only catches `new Date(`. A `Date.parse()` solution passes 23/23 (I ran one). `Date.now()` and `Date.UTC()` slip through the same way.

Matching the raw `code` also gives false negatives: a correct solution whose comment mentions `new Date()` currently fails this hint. `__helpers.removeJSComments` is the established pattern, see `lab-countdown/5cd9a70215d3c4e65518328f.md:87`.

`\bDate\b` does not match `dueDate`, so that identifier is safe. Note this does tighten grading, since `Date.parse` solutions skip the manual date-parsing skill the lab teaches.

```suggestion
assert.notMatch(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /\bDate\b/);
```

---
id: 69f0a37c3bf194a7c9c62492
title: Build a Device Loan Ledger
challengeType: 26
dashedName: lab-device-loan-ledger
---

# --description--

You are a software developer tasked with creating a ledger application to manage IT hardware devices provisioned by your company's Service Desk. The ledger is an object whose keys are asset tags and whose values are objects:

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": {
    type: "Laptop",
    status: "CheckedIn",
    borrower: {
      name: "",
      email: ""
    },
    dueDate: ""
  }
};
```

**Objective:** Fulfill the user stories below and get all the tests to pass to complete the lab.

**User Stories:**

> 1. You should model the ledger as `{ [assetTag]: { type, status, borrower: { name, email }, dueDate } }`.

Reviewer 2: This restates the code block above it, and computed-key notation (`[assetTag]`) has not been introduced at this point in the superblock. It is also the only user story with no corresponding hint. Plain prose reads better here:

```suggestion
1. You should model the ledger as an object where each device is keyed by its asset tag and has `type`, `status`, `borrower` (with `name` and `email`), and `dueDate` properties.
```

> 1. You should implement a `checkoutDevice(ledger, assetTag, borrower)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, sets the borrower's `name` and `email` on the clone, updates the `status` to `"CheckedOut"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that the asset tag was not found. If the device is already `"CheckedOut"`, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that it is already checked out, without overwriting the current borrower.

Reviewer 2: Three hints grade the contents of `message`, but this story only requires that a `message` string exists:

- "should return a confirmation message that includes the asset tag and the borrower's `name`" asserts the tag and the name are both in the string.
- The not-found hint asserts the message includes `"99"`.
- The already-checked-out hint asserts the message includes `"1"`.

The last one is the one campers will hit: "This device is already checked out." satisfies the story as written and fails the hint. Since the tests grade it, the story should ask for it:

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `checkoutDevice(ledger, assetTag, borrower)` function that takes a ledger object, clones it without mutating the original, sets the borrower's `name` and `email` on the clone, updates the `status` to `"CheckedOut"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. The message should include the asset tag and the borrower's `name`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message that includes the asset tag and explains that it was not found. If the device is already `"CheckedOut"`, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message that includes the asset tag and explains that the device is already checked out, without overwriting the current borrower.
```

(The suggestion also drops "takes the ledger as an object", since the signature right before it already shows `ledger` as the first parameter.)

Separate question on the same story: should `checkoutDevice` set a `dueDate`? As written it never does, so a device checked out through the camper's own code can never become overdue, which makes `listOverdueDevices` unreachable from the rest of the lab. Either adding a `dueDate` argument or stating explicitly that `dueDate` is left unchanged would resolve the ambiguity.

> 1. You should implement a `checkinDevice(ledger, assetTag)` function that takes the ledger as an object, clones it without mutating the original, clears the borrower's `name` and `email`, resets `dueDate` to `""`, updates the `status` to `"CheckedIn"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message explaining that the asset tag was not found.

Reviewer 2: Same issue as the checkout story: the check-in hint asserts the message includes the asset tag (`"3"`), and the not-found hint asserts it includes `"99"`, but the story does not ask for either.

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `checkinDevice(ledger, assetTag)` function that takes a ledger object, clones it without mutating the original, clears the borrower's `name` and `email`, resets `dueDate` to `""`, updates the `status` to `"CheckedIn"`, and returns an object of the form `{ ledger: updatedLedger, message: confirmationString }`. The message should include the asset tag. If `assetTag` does not exist in the ledger, the function should return the ledger unchanged along with a message that includes the asset tag and explains that it was not found.
```

> 1. You should implement a `listOverdueDevices(ledger, today)` function that takes the ledger as an object and returns an array of the device objects that are overdue, sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order. A device is overdue when its `status` is `"CheckedOut"` and its `dueDate` is strictly before `today`. Both `today` and `dueDate` are strings in `M/D/YYYY` format, and the month and day may not be zero-padded (e.g. `"9/5/2025"` as well as `"09/05/2025"`).

Reviewer 2: Two problems in the last sentence:

1. "the month and day may not be zero-padded" reads as a prohibition ("must not be"), which is the opposite of what is meant.
2. `"09/05/2025"` is not `M/D/YYYY`, so the stated format excludes the second example the sentence offers.

```suggestion
1. You should implement a `listOverdueDevices(ledger, today)` function that takes a ledger object and returns an array of the device objects that are overdue, sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order. A device is overdue when its `status` is `"CheckedOut"` and its `dueDate` is strictly before `today`. Both `today` and `dueDate` are strings in month/day/year order, and the month and day may or may not be zero-padded (for example, `"9/5/2025"` and `"09/05/2025"` are both valid).
```

1. You should not use the JavaScript `Date` object anywhere in your code.
1. You should implement a `serializeLedger(ledger)` helper function that converts the ledger object into a JSON string, and a `loadLedger(json)` helper function that converts a JSON string back into a JavaScript object.

# --hints--

You should create a function named `checkoutDevice`.

```js
assert.isFunction(checkoutDevice);
```

You should create a function named `checkinDevice`.

```js
assert.isFunction(checkinDevice);
```

You should create a function named `listOverdueDevices`.

```js
assert.isFunction(listOverdueDevices);
```

You should create a function named `serializeLedger`.

```js
assert.isFunction(serializeLedger);
```

You should create a function named `loadLedger`.

```js
assert.isFunction(loadLedger);
```

> Your `serializeLedger` function should return a JSON string.

Reviewer 2: The hints for `serializeLedger` and `loadLedger` sit here, ahead of the `checkoutDevice` and `checkinDevice` behavior hints, but serialization is the last user story. Moving these two blocks below the `listOverdueDevices` hints would make the hint order follow the story order.

};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "99", { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" });
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "99");
```

Your `checkoutDevice` function should not overwrite the borrower when the device is already checked out.

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const result = checkoutDevice(ledger, "1", { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" });
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.name, "Alice");
assert.equal(result.ledger["1"].borrower.email, "alice@test.com");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "1");
```

Your `checkinDevice` function should not mutate the original ledger.

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/01/2025" }
};
const original = JSON.parse(JSON.stringify(ledger));
checkinDevice(ledger, "1");
assert.deepEqual(ledger, original);
```

> Your `checkinDevice` function should clear the borrower's `name` and `email`, reset `dueDate`, and set `status` to `"CheckedIn"`.

Reviewer 2: The assertion below checks `dueDate` is `""` specifically, so the hint should say so (the user story already does):

```suggestion
Your `checkinDevice` function should clear the borrower's `name` and `email`, reset `dueDate` to `""`, and set `status` to `"CheckedIn"`.
```

};
const result = checkinDevice(ledger, "99");
assert.deepEqual(result.ledger, ledger);
assert.isString(result.message);
assert.include(result.message, "99");
```

Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return an array.

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};
assert.isArray(listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025"));
```

Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return only overdue devices with a `status` of `"CheckedOut"`.

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" },
  "3": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "12/31/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 1);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Alice");
```

> Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return entries sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order.

Reviewer 2: "entries" suggests `Object.entries` key/value pairs, which is the wrong shape. The user story and the hint above both say "devices", and the assertions read `result[0].borrower.name`, so let's keep the terminology consistent:

```suggestion
Your `listOverdueDevices` function should return the overdue devices sorted by `dueDate` in ascending order.
```

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "11/01/2025" },
  "2": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/01/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 2);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Bob");
assert.equal(result[1].borrower.name, "Alice");
```

Your `listOverdueDevices` function should sort correctly even when the month or day is not zero-padded.

```js
const ledger = {
  "1": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Alice", email: "alice@test.com" }, dueDate: "9/5/2025" },
  "2": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Bob", email: "bob@test.com" }, dueDate: "10/1/2025" }
};
const result = listOverdueDevices(ledger, "12/01/2025");
assert.lengthOf(result, 2);
assert.equal(result[0].borrower.name, "Alice");
assert.equal(result[1].borrower.name, "Bob");
```

You should not use the JavaScript `Date` object anywhere in your code.

```js

> assert.notMatch(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /\bDate\b/);

Reviewer 2: `\bDate\b` also matches the word "Date" inside string literals, and comments are stripped but strings are not. A camper who writes `` `Due Date passed for ${assetTag}` `` or `"Date not found"` in one of the required messages fails this hint with an error about a `Date` object they never used. In a lab about date strings, that wording is fairly likely to show up in output text.

Matching on usage instead of the bare word keeps grading identical for real `Date` use (`new Date()`, `Date.now()`, `Date.parse()`, `Date()`) while accepting the word in a message:

```suggestion
assert.notMatch(__helpers.removeJSComments(code), /\bnew\s+Date\b|\bDate\s*[.(]/);
```

```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```js
const equipmentLedger = {
  "1": { type: "PC", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "John Smith", email: "john@acme.org" }, dueDate: "11/30/2025" },
  "2": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" },
  "3": { type: "Laptop", status: "CheckedOut", borrower: { name: "Jane Doe", email: "jane@acme.org" }, dueDate: "10/31/2025" },
  "4": { type: "iPad", status: "CheckedIn", borrower: { name: "", email: "" }, dueDate: "" }
};

> ```

Reviewer 2: There are two blank lines at the end of the seed. One is the usual convention.

Author: > There are two blank lines at the end of the seed. One is the usual convention.

Thanks for the review, Sembauke. I’ve addressed all the requested changes and updated the lab accordingly
